README.md, before:

# movie-magic-sept-2025
SoftUni JS Back-End Course Workshop

## Workshop 1 - Express and Templating

### Setup
 - [x] Initialize Project
 - [x] Add Express Server `npm i express`
 - [x] Config debugging
 - [x] Add Workshop Resources
 - [x] Setup Handlebars `npm i express-handlebars`
 - [x] Setup static files
 - [x] Render Home Page
 - [x] Add Layout
 - [x] Render About Page
### Architecture and dynamic rendering
 - [x] Add home controller
 - [x] Add movie data layer
 - [x] Add movie service
 - [x] Render movies on home page
 - [x] Show no movies screen
### Create Movie
 - [x] Add Movie Controller
 - [x] Show create movie page
 - [x] Add routes
 - [x] Add 404 page
 - [x] Ready body data
 - [x] Create movie
   - [x] Add action
   - [x] Add service
   - [x] Add model method for creating movie
 - [x] Redirect after creation
 - [x] Add unique if for each cerated movie
### Details
 - [x] Add navigation button for detail page
 - [x] Add route with param for details page 
 - [x] GetOne movie from service
 - [x] Find movie by id from model
 - [x] Render details page with dynamic data
### Search
 - [x] Show static search page
 - [x] Render all movies
 - [x] Modify search form
 - [x] Filter movies
   - [x] By year
   - [x] By genre
   - [x] By title 
 - [x] Remember search words
### Bonuses
 - [x] Dynamic page title
 - [x] Rating (temp solution)
 - [x] File Persistance

## Workshop 2 - MongoDB Database

### Prerequisites
 - [x] Install MongoDB Community Server
 - [x] Install Compass GUI
 - [x] Install Mongosh CLI (Optional)

### Setup Database
 - [x] Install mongoose `npm i mongoose`
 - [x] Connect to DB 

### Refactor Movies to use mongoose
 - [x] Add movie model
   - [x] Create movie schema
   - [x] Create movie model
 - [x] Import file movies to database !DON'T IMPORT IDs
 - [x] Fix own property handlebars problem with lean method
 - [x] General fix for own property problem
 - [x] Refactor details
 - [x] Refactor create
 - [x] Refactor search

### Add Cast
 - [x] Add new resources
 - [x] Create Cast Controller
 - [x] Create Cast Page
 - [x] Add Cast model
 - [x] Create Cast Service
 - [x] Create Cast Functionallity

### Attach Cast to Movie (relations)
 - [x] Add attach cast button
 - [x] Add attach cast page
 - [x] Add dynamic data to cast page
 - [x] Show cast list in attach select
 - [x] Add relation between cast and movie
 - [x] Attach cast functionallity

### Show Cast Details (population)
 - [x] Get movie casts filtered
 - [x] Show casts on details
 - [x] Get movie casts using population

### Bonuses
 - [x] Filter casts if they are already attached
 - [ ] Env variables
 - [ ] name in movie
 - [ ] Back refference from vscode
 - [ ] Add movie views to a folder

## Workshop 3 - Session and Authentication

### Initial Setup
 - [x] Add resources

### Registration
 - [x] Add new controller `authController`
 - [x] Add registration page
 - [x] Add User model
 - [x] Add User service
 - [x] Handle registration (create user in database)
 - [x] Add password hashing

### Login
 - [x] Add login page
 - [x] Handle login page
   - [x] Validate user
   - [x] Validate password
   - [x] Create token
   - [x] Return token to client

### Logout
 - [x] Add logout action
 - [x] Clear cookie

### Authorization
 - [x] Install cookie parser
 - [x] Add auth middleware
 - [x] Add isAuth route guard
 - [x] Add isGuest route guard

### Dynamic Navigation
 - [x] Group navigation by user type (all, authenticated and guest)
 - [x] Add auth info to handlebars context

### Show creator control buttons
 - [x] Add edit and delete buttons on details page
 - [ ] Show buttons only for creators

### Delete movies

### Edit movies

### Bonus
 - [ ] Automatic login on register
 - [ ] Invalidate token on logout
 - [ ] Refresh token

Commit message:

Add creator on movie create

README.md, after:

# movie-magic-sept-2025
SoftUni JS Back-End Course Workshop

## Workshop 1 - Express and Templating

### Setup
 - [x] Initialize Project
 - [x] Add Express Server `npm i express`
 - [x] Config debugging
 - [x] Add Workshop Resources
 - [x] Setup Handlebars `npm i express-handlebars`
 - [x] Setup static files
 - [x] Render Home Page
 - [x] Add Layout
 - [x] Render About Page
### Architecture and dynamic rendering
 - [x] Add home controller
 - [x] Add movie data layer
 - [x] Add movie service
 - [x] Render movies on home page
 - [x] Show no movies screen
### Create Movie
 - [x] Add Movie Controller
 - [x] Show create movie page
 - [x] Add routes
 - [x] Add 404 page
 - [x] Ready body data
 - [x] Create movie
   - [x] Add action
   - [x] Add service
   - [x] Add model method for creating movie
 - [x] Redirect after creation
 - [x] Add unique if for each cerated movie
### Details
 - [x] Add navigation button for detail page
 - [x] Add route with param for details page 
 - [x] GetOne movie from service
 - [x] Find movie by id from model
 - [x] Render details page with dynamic data
### Search
 - [x] Show static search page
 - [x] Render all movies
 - [x] Modify search form
 - [x] Filter movies
   - [x] By year
   - [x] By genre
   - [x] By title 
 - [x] Remember search words
### Bonuses
 - [x] Dynamic page title
 - [x] Rating (temp solution)
 - [x] File Persistance

## Workshop 2 - MongoDB Database

### Prerequisites
 - [x] Install MongoDB Community Server
 - [x] Install Compass GUI
 - [x] Install Mongosh CLI (Optional)

### Setup Database
 - [x] Install mongoose `npm i mongoose`
 - [x] Connect to DB 

### Refactor Movies to use mongoose
 - [x] Add movie model
   - [x] Create movie schema
   - [x] Create movie model
 - [x] Import file movies to database !DON'T IMPORT IDs
 - [x] Fix own property handlebars problem with lean method
 - [x] General fix for own property problem
 - [x] Refactor details
 - [x] Refactor create
 - [x] Refactor search

### Add Cast
 - [x] Add new resources
 - [x] Create Cast Controller
 - [x] Create Cast Page
 - [x] Add Cast model
 - [x] Create Cast Service
 - [x] Create Cast Functionallity

### Attach Cast to Movie (relations)
 - [x] Add attach cast button
 - [x] Add attach cast page
 - [x] Add dynamic data to cast page
 - [x] Show cast list in attach select
 - [x] Add relation between cast and movie
 - [x] Attach cast functionallity

### Show Cast Details (population)
 - [x] Get movie casts filtered
 - [x] Show casts on details
 - [x] Get movie casts using population

### Bonuses
 - [x] Filter casts if they are already attached
 - [ ] Env variables
 - [ ] name in movie
 - [ ] Back refference from vscode
 - [ ] Add movie views to a folder

## Workshop 3 - Session and Authentication

### Initial Setup
 - [x] Add resources

### Registration
 - [x] Add new controller `authController`
 - [x] Add registration page
 - [x] Add User model
 - [x] Add User service
 - [x] Handle registration (create user in database)
 - [x] Add password hashing

### Login
 - [x] Add login page
 - [x] Handle login page
   - [x] Validate user
   - [x] Validate password
   - [x] Create token
   - [x] Return token to client

### Logout
 - [x] Add logout action
 - [x] Clear cookie

### Authorization
 - [x] Install cookie parser
 - [x] Add auth middleware
 - [x] Add isAuth route guard
 - [x] Add isGuest route guard

### Dynamic Navigation
 - [x] Group navigation by user type (all, authenticated and guest)
 - [x] Add auth info to handlebars context

### Show creator control buttons
 - [x] Add edit and delete buttons on details page
 - [x] Add creator as relation to movies
 - [x] Add user as creator on movie create
 - [ ] Show buttons only for creators

### Delete movies

### Edit movies

### Bonus
 - [ ] Automatic login on register
 - [ ] Invalidate token on logout
 - [ ] Refresh token
